Add full-text query documentation (#5428)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _query-dsl/full-text/multi-match.md

---
layout: default
title: Multi-match
parent: Full-text queries
grand_parent: Query DSL
nav_order: 50
---

# Multi-match queries

A multi-match operation functions similarly to the [match]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/full-text/match/) operation. You can use a `multi_match` query to search multiple fields. 

> The `^` lets you "boost" certain fields. Boosts are multipliers that weigh matches in one field more heavily than matches in other fields. In the following example, a match for "wind" in the title field influences `_score` four times as much as a match in the plot field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `^` "boosts" certain fields. Boosts are multipliers that weigh matches in one field more heavily than matches in other fields. In the following example, a match for "wind" in the title field influences `_score` four times as much as a match in the plot field:
```

}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

```json
PUT /articles/_doc/2
{
  "title": "Buttering a toast"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The `standard` analyzer analyzes the title `Buttered toast` into [`buttered`, `toasts`] and the title `Buttering a toast` into [`buttering`, `a`, `toast`]. On the other hand, the `english` analyzer produces the same token list [`butter`, `toast`] for both titles because of stemming.

You can use the `most_fields` query in order to return as many documents as possible:

```json
GET /articles/_search
{
  "query": {
    "multi_match": {
      "query": "buttered toast",
      "fields": [ 
        "title",
        "title.english"
      ],
      "type": "most_fields" 
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The preceding query is executed as the following Boolean query:

```json
GET articles/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "should": [
        { "match": { "title": "buttered toasts" }},
        { "match": { "title.english": "buttered toasts" }}
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

To calculate the relevance score, a document's scores for all `match` clauses are added together and then the result is divided by the number of `match` clauses.

> Including the `title.english` field lets you receive the second document that matches the stemmed tokens:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including the `title.english` field retrieves the second document that matches the stemmed tokens:
```

`minimum_should_match` | Positive or negative integer, positive or negative percentage, combination | If the query string contains multiple search terms and you use the `or` operator, the number of terms that need to match for the document to be considered a match. For example, if `minimum_should_match` is 2, `wind often rising` does not match `The Wind Rises.` If `minimum_should_match` is `1`, it matches. For details, see [Minimum should match]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/query-dsl/minimum-should-match/).
`operator` | String | If the query string contains multiple search terms, whether all terms need to match (`AND`) or only one term needs to match (`OR`) for a document to be considered a match. Valid values are:<br>- `OR`: The string `to be` is interpreted as `to OR be`<br>- `AND`: The string `to be` is interpreted as `to AND be`<br> Default is `OR`.
`prefix_length` | Non-negative integer | The number of leading characters that are not considered in fuzziness. Default is `0`.

> `slop` | `0` (default) or a positive integer | Controls the degree to which words in a query can be misordered and still be considered a match. From the [Lucene documentation](https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_9_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/PhraseQuery.html#getSlop--): "The number of other words permitted between words in query phrase. For example, to switch the order of two words requires two moves (the first move places the words atop one another), so to permit re-orderings of phrases, the slop must be at least two. A value of zero requires an exact match." Supported for `phrase` and `phrase_prefix` query types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`slop` | `0` (default) or a positive integer | Controls the degree to which words in a query can be misordered and still be considered a match. From the [Lucene documentation](https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_9_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/PhraseQuery.html#getSlop--): "The number of other words permitted between words in query phrase. For example, to switch the order of two words requires two moves (the first move places the words atop one another), so to permit reorderings of phrases, the slop must be at least two. A value of zero requires an exact match." Supported for `phrase` and `phrase_prefix` query types.
```
